well in the United States at least one
person was arrested when demonstrators
calling for a cease fight in Gaza
protested outside the headquarters of
the Democratic National Committee on
Wednesday night the US capital police
said six of their officers suffered
injuries after being pepper sprayed and
punched the demos organized has said at
least 100 participants suffered injuries
with us on the program tonight the
former US ambassador to Egypt Frank
wizner who served for many years in the
US state department Ambassador you're
very welcome to the program thank you
for being with us um
the splits in the United States over
what is happening in Gaza are starting
to come to the four uh you just heard
from the anra representative there
saying we can't get the aid to where it
is needed in Gaza uh from Tomorrow
onwards because we don't have the
fuel how difficult does this make it for
the White House particularly in terms of
its relations in the
region this is a terrible situation
however you look at it and from whatever
advantage point you begin the White
House is in a tight corner so is the
government of Israel so is uh the
population of Gaza we're all in a
terrible terrible fix and I can only
hope that the uh problem we're facing
right now will be somewhat alleviated
with the notion of a pause and Then
followed by the delivery of fuel and in
increased amounts of humanitarian Aid
but the stories that we're all listening
to are just horrific there's no question
about it and it impels everyone to
double down and do what's possible to
bring alleviation to this Dreadful
situation well I want to talk about that
because it seems the Biden
administration's strategy was to keep
the Israelis close hug them close
support them build up political Capital
so that they could restrain them when
the time was right but that's not paying
off is it the Israeli War cabinet has
certainly welcomed the support and now
is resisting the political pressure to
pause how problematic is that for the
president well you're speaking about a a
negotiation that is ongoing between
Washington and Jerusalem and I really
cannot tell you what exactly is
happening but I know what American
policy is and that is to bring
uh a situation this current terrible
situation to alleviate the suffering
that's underway to get the hostages out
to bring humanitarian assistance in to
pause the combat in order to enable this
and then to move on Beyond to a
different outcome that's American policy
where we're actually at any given moment
in our dialogue with the Israelis or
with with any party I I obviously I just
don't
know president Herzog the Israeli
president said in an interview with the
financial times today that Israel can't
leave a vacuum in Gaza after the war and
will need a very strong force to prevent
Hamas from
reemerging uh if we pull back he says
then who will take over President Biden
said again yesterday that a reoccupation
of Gaza would be a mistake what from
your perspective and you know the region
so well what from your perspective would
Gaza look like in the aftermath of a war
well this is of course the central next
question not the final one but what
takes over in Gaza if there is an end to
open
hostilities um and all I can tell you at
this stage is there are no easy answers
uh the Israelis should not stay in Hamas
would not be in a position to manage the
territory no no uh UN agency has the
strength to do that the Palestinian
Authority is too weak to take that on no
Coalition of Arab governments is going
to put themselves In Harm's Way without
a political context and step into the
Gaza nightmare so we don't know the
answer to your question it's a
profoundly important one at this stage
and with combat still in an intense
phase uh it's hard to answer that
Ambassador good to have you on the
program this evening thank
you pleasure to have been with you thank
you around the world and across the UK
you're watching BBC News